My career goal as a computer science engineer is to bridge the gap between innovative AI algorithms and complicated real-world problems. After watching  The Terminator for the first time as a child, I was amazed that distinctions between robots and real human beings were too subtle to notice. After I entered the computer science field during university, I realized that sophisticated artificial intelligent algorithms in academia did exist, but I wondered why we couldn’t build machines like those I saw in the Terminator. This is exactly the gap that lies between AI algorithms and real-world problems, like the one stumps Watson of IBM. This gap is now also an obstacle towards fulfilling my career goal and it has motivated me to apply for a graduate program so as to accumulate my technology credentials to help build the bridge and create a better world. 
 
I have confirmed my interests in research and identified my career goal through my learning and working experiences. My journey in computer science began at the Software Engineering Institute of Nanjing University. Through learning from comprehensive curriculums and laboratory projects, I accumulated a solid background not only for academic theory but also for practical engineering. This is not to mention that my academic experiences during my sophomore year made me fascinated with the field. At the time, I joined a project focusing on image processing and video encoding . Along with my learning in color models like RGB, HSV and image processing such as resizing and segmentation, I realized the comprehensive and amazing roles played by the numbers 0 and 1 which lied beneath the simple representation of our familiar things. This experience undoubtedly further strengthened my belief that computer science is a riveting and significant subject that deserves further exploration.

My enthusiasm for the field exceeded beyond that of the academic area. In one instance, I joined SAP Labs China as a software engineer intern and was responsible for the frontend and backend development of enterprise applications ERP. One of my most memorable experiences was when I worked on a collaboration project—Real-time Dashboard for ERP-QM with a senior SAP architect. My tasks involved utilizing directed graph and binary search tree to model intricate ERP requirements, applying algorithms such as DFS, DP to guarantee high performance and employing network solutions such as WebSocket, polling and SSE to accommodate different requirements. More importantly however, by “shadowing” them, I was granted the opportunity to observe and learn the way in which experts in the world think, design and implemented with computer science. Consequently, this experience has undoubtedbly assisted me in forming my methodology in the field and affirmed my dream to become an impactful engineer in computer science.

To pursue my dream, I joined Digital Manufacturing, SAP Labs China upon graduating. There, I worked on Manufacturing Networks where I accumulated valuable engineering experience and gained various soft skills; such as how to cooperate in a team and communicate with foreign colleagues. One of my most fruitful projects involved the technical migration from Private Cloud NEO to CloudFoundry (CF) on top of AWS. To migrate products, I believe that it is necessary for us to tailor them to fit into a new technical ecology. My responsibilities involved tasks such as conducting technical research for CF concepts, implement PoC to prove the feasibility of our new solutions and to design adaption plans whenever feasible. In the beginning, the security concepts from CF and SAP completely baffled me. SAP requires sophisticated authorization on multiple dimensions (tenant, org, plant, person); while CF provides esoteric authorization processes in UAA. To identify a solution, I delved deeper into the security area with all resources available. Despite the fact that this experience was arduous and challenging, I formed a deep understanding of software security. Notably, the learning process also trained me to think and design architecture from a bigger picture and honed my ability of independently solving complex problems—an invaluable skill for an outstanding engineer.
 
Computer science is a comprehensive field but I narrowed down my focus due to a SAP innovation campaign. At the time, our team utilized Multilayer Perceptron to predict optimized printing parameters for 3D printers to minimize printing waste and we were honored with a prize. More importantly however, it enlightened my interest in exploring data potentials. From then on, I delved into AI through online courses (Prof. Andrew Ng’s) and books (Prof. Daniel Jurafsky’s and James H. Martin’s). Not only did the learning offer me an insightful understanding of AI, but it also showed me the exciting future that AI has in facilitating this world. Such experiences encouraged a more specific goal for me in leveraging AI to solve practical problems with software so as to help more people.

To further myself in the field of AI, I joined AI Labs, Lufax in 2018 where I was responsible for developing a chatbot AskBob capable of chatting, answering questions and recommending products that serves more than 200K customers. At the time, I managed team of 5 engineers and we designed a delicate NLP pipeline to make AskBob as intelligent as possible; incorporating elements such as named entity recognition, intent classifier, sentiment analysis, question answering and dialogue management. Together with numerous models however, the intertwined function code made the original architecture too cumbersome and chaotic to iterate. Consequently, I accordingly led the architecture refactoring based on learned microservices principle in SAP to achieve component portability, pipeline modularization, duty/complexity separation and hot deployment. It was an overwhelming but rewarding experience as I was introduced to a wealth of knowledge but I took advantage of every opportunity to learn and apply it. However, there were certain challenges that appeared with my accomplishment. Such problems included identifying whether the intents we defined should be orthogonal to each other to optimize classifier. This is not always realistic for real-world sentences, and an advanced model such as BERT can sometimes only behave equally or even worse than a simple regex model on some corpora. This obstacle prevented me from building a chatbot like The Terminator, and it is the problem that urged me to acquire more knowledge and to explore more unknown aspects of the field.

The MCDS of Carnegie Mellon University aims to equip students with the necessary skills and knowledge to manage complex intelligent systems and to exploit involved data. I wish to engage in such areas so as to further my knowledge as they contribute immensely to my career goal of engineering AI on top of data to help the world. I believe the esteemed faculty and constructive courses (10-608, 11-791, etc.) in CMU can assist me in broadening my horizons and deepen my research. Meanwhile, the diverse student body would allow me to interact and collaborate with like-minded individuals to break impenetrable barriers. This is not to mention the resourceful platform can bring essential challenges and opportunities. Meanwhile, I believe that my solid education background and criticism of technology make me an outstanding learner. This is not to mention that my leadership and ample experience in the industry make me a promising engineer, while my interests and sparked aspiration allow me to be a persevering contributor. I hope to contribute uniquely the XX program and in turn, I know that the program will guide me along the path to achieving my aspirations. 

You generally did a great job with this, this was well-written, comprehensive and informative. You have brought up many points and really given the reader a sense of who you are, your background/experiences and why you are so passionate about this field. Please look through the comments carefully in certain areas where I suggest you to make your experiences more connective in the sense of focusing more on what you learned and how that particular experience contributes to what you currently wish to pursue (this is focusing less on the "what happened” and “what you did” aspect.) You did a great job in summarizing your experiences but some of the areas can be rather detailed, so I suggest looking into condensing certain areas and really choosing what you want the readers to obtain from reading about that experience. This is especially reflected in certain areas where your sentences tended to be rather verbose—I have made certain parts more condense, please review accordingly and be wary of this for future writing. There are just still a few areas that are a bit vague and difficult to understand due to the wording. Please look at those the comments carefully and edit. A couple other areas are lacking in logic and need clarification and some areas where the structure and background doesn’t quite connect as well, please review and edit accordingly. Good luck!
